Timelock Recovery is a mechanism which, in case of a catastrophic event
(death or loss of your master key), can send your Bitcoin to a secondary wallet of your choice
within a time-window (i.e. 90 days).

During that time-window, you can see that the Timelock Recovery mechanism has been triggered (a
transaction from your wallet to itself is created on the Bitcoin blockchain), and if this
has happened against your will, you can use your master key to cancel the process (by moving
the funds elsewhere before the time-window expires).

The implementation of Timelock Recovery is done with two transactions that are signed in advance,
but broadcast only when needed:

- An Initiation Transaction which sends the funds from the wallet to itself (consolidating the UTXOs).

- A Recovery Transaction which sends the funds to a secondary wallet of your choice and can
  be added to the blockchain only X days after the Initiation Transaction has been broadcast (and mined).

Optionally, Sparrow will also let you sign in advance a Cancellation Transaction which can be
used to cancel the Timelock Recovery process, by broadcasting it before the time-window expires.
If the Initiation Transaction has been broadcast, the Cancellation Transaction will send the funds again to
the same wallet, which would invalidate the Recovery Transaction (technically: the Recovery Transaction
will be seen as a transaction that is trying to spend a UTXO that has already been spent).

Timelock Recovery plans do not require any involvement of a third party.
However, two precautions should be taken:

- Due to the way Bitcoin transactions and UTXOs work, spending funds from the wallet might break
  the entire Timelock Recovery plan.

- Adding more funds to the wallet will not be covered by the Timelock Recovery plan.

Therefore it is highly recommended not to use the wallet for any purpose after creating a
Timelock Recovery plan (other than long-term storage).
Instead, for daily purposes use a separate wallet (with a seed in a place that
your loved ones could easily find) and only after accumulating enough funds relevant for long-term
storage, move them to a new highly secured wallet (i.e. with a long passphrase that only you memorize) for
which you create a new Timelock Recovery plan (back to the daily-purpose wallet or to your inheritors' wallet).

Each accumulation should be done in a new highly secured wallet, but these are easy to create, i.e. you can
memorize a long passphrase and add a counter at the end (1 for the first accumulation, 2 for the second, etc.).

For more details, visit: https://timelockrecovery.com.

Before we begin, please note:

- Please prepare in advance the addresses of your inheritors/backup-wallets.

- Since we are preparing this recovery plan for the long future, it is hard
  to estimate what the required mining fees will be.
  If the fee is too low, your inheritors, who don't have access to the master
  keys, will not be able to simply "replace-by-fee" and use a higher fee.
  At the moment of writing this (year 2026) this is not a big deal, because
  there are acceleration services, such as mempool.space's accelerator, that
  allow boosting selected transactions for direct payment.
  Just in case this service will not be available in the future, the
  Initiation Transaction will send a small amount of 600 sats to each
  destination address. This will allow advanced users to boost the
  first transaction by spending their unmined UTXO in a mechanism called
  Child-Pays-For-Parent.

- BIP-68 relative time locks use median time past (MTP), so the wait after
  the Initiation transaction confirms is not a wall-clock guarantee.
